So this is the first challenge for
the collections.
This is what the screen should look like
on a desktop by the time you're done
notice that we have
a series of images here.
There are two rows with three columns each
have different color borders associated
with them.
Notice that we have the figure caption
here overlapping the image just like
we did in the previous code pen.
So, that is what it should
look like there at desktop.
When we go to tablet,
it's going to be two images across.
And when we go to a mobile, it's going
to be a series of images in a column.
So go ahead and give that a try.
Hope you did okay on the collections.
Let's go through exactly how these
are going to work how I coded them.
As always, there's lots of different
ways to approach these problems.
So you may have come up with
something slightly different, but
I'll tell you about how I
address this particular problem.
So if we take a look at our HTML here,
what I've done is the following I've
set this up first of all inside of
a section rather than using a div.
I've set this up as a section.
The reason why is because
this is a section of
the webpage that happens to
be talking about collections.
You could have used a div tag here
if you wanted, it's less meaningful.
I understand that the accessibility
of section is kind of hit or
miss in terms of whether screen readers
actually understand the section for
an element but I decided to use it anyway.
Anytime you have a section
you need a heading so
there it is h2 my assumption is of course
that somewhere on the page there will
eventually be an h1 which
is why I started with h2.
And then,
this is a list of pictures and so
this is marked up as a list inside
of each list item is our figure.
And these are more or
less marked up the way you've seen
in several examples prior to this.
So there's a figure tag,
there's an image, and
then there's a figure caption
inside of each of these.
I wound up assigning classes
to each one of these figures.
And that class is numbered color seven,
color two and so
forth that's actually going
to match back to our CSS.
So that is the HTML markup that
I used here on the CSS side.
Let's go through that.
So I started off giving you The series
of colors that are here inside of
this example for
the page that we're building.
And the designer gave me ten different
colors, so I just set them all up,
numbered one to ten, and
there are all of the values.
You could, if you know how to use CSS,
custom properties or variables, as they're
often called, you can absolutely call
on these colors inside of your code.
If you're not familiar with that code,
just take that codes and
drop them into your CSS and
that will work just fine also.
As I mentioned earlier, I have not made
extensive use of variables inside of this
course again, because this is more
targeted towards beginners who are just
starting out and I'm trying to keep
this as straightforward as possible.
But clearly you can do more with
variables in the work that I'm done here.
All right, so then we have our,
basic quarter box styling,
we have some basic body
sitting up our margin.
And I said on our sections such that We
won't go wider than 1200 pixels just so
the screen doesn't get
ridiculously large and
set up some margin and some padding
on that as well as a font size.
Now we're going into our new styles.
So well as always the first step
anytime you're using markup like
this is to turn off the bullets.
It is set up as a list because that is
semantically what this is just a list
of images.
And of course those come with bullets so
we turn those off.
Then as I say here, to keep the mobile
screens from being stupid long keep,
consider setting a max height on
the images and then hide the overflow.
Because otherwise you might
wind up with images that may
take up even more than
one screen on a phone.
So you might really indeed
want to set a max width and
then just hide that overflow
which is what I've done here.
We've got a bit of margin on these to
put a bit of separation on them and,
I set up a tiny little bit of a border
radius and then notice that I
spelled out individually my
border width and my border style.
Normally we see this is like
border one pixel solid red.
Here I've spelled it out in two separate
declarations because that border color
I've associated with
those classes later on.
So by default my finger will come
with a border with a has a width and
a style but it does not have a color and
the color will be added on later.
Okay in between the figure and
the caption,
I think there's this tiny
little space that shows up.
We saw it in a previous example here,
I've just used margin bottom of a negative
four pixels to tighten that up.
And I've set this up to have
the object fit property and
the object position property.
This has to do with how the images
are displaying inside of the webpage here.
When you set your max
height on those pictures,
they'll just take the top
400 pixels of the picture.
Sometimes the interesting parts of
the picture are down towards the bottom.
So what this is doing is it's pushing up
the visible portion of the picture so
that we can see it a little bit better.
And we're cropping off parts that
are less interesting by default.
We also have styling here for
our finger caption.
I talked to you previously about
relative and absolute positioning.
And so we've done something very
similar here with that, and
we've set a background color with
a bit of transparency to it.
Yes, we have a question.
>> Why do we need position relative here?
>> Why do we need position relative here.
Here we have not used Flexbox to lay out
the inside of this particular figure.
We've just using absolute and relative
positioning in this particular case, so
that's why we need it here.
Then we have our figure caption a,
we wanna have a big clickable
area with display block, okay?
Remember that by default your links
are an inline type of configuration.
They're only as wide as their content
their lives, why does their text.
And so, people can easily
miss that clickable area,
make it really big,
set it to display block, give it a color.
And that will give us a great big huge
target area very helpful on phones in
particular, can't hurt on desktop.
Okay, then I set up a whole
bunch of these styles,
which have a really Weird combination
of both border color and text color.
These are to set up the colors
inside of our borders on the figure,
as well as some of the colors inside of
the text that inside of that document.
So that is what all of this is, and
we're just calling on the colors as
configured earlier in the document.
So there's a whole bunch of those
Then we get to our media queries.
Here is the first place that we turn
on our media query at 550 pixels.
And I've talked you through this several
times display flex flex flows row wrap,
justify content is space between so
my favorite configuration right there.
And then we'll set each Li to
have a flex basis of 49.5%.
I didn't make use of
the gap property here.
You absolutely could have used
the gap property if you wanted, but
by virtue of having two
elements next to each
other Just 49.5% add them together,
you get like 99%.
So you'll get a 1% gap by default
in between those two items.
And then I turn off the object positioning
once we get to the larger screens.
Otherwise what you'll see
is half of the image and
half of it will be cut off
you'll just have blank space.
So we have to turn that off here to pull
everything down a little bit further.
And then finally here,
for my last media queries,
I'm just turning on a little
bit of an indent and
setting up a 1/3 size for
our flex basis property for that Li.
So let's take a quick look at
the web page and see how it looks.
So here's our web page.
Hopefully yours looks
pretty much like this.
And we'll scrunch it down so
you can see how it changes.
One of the things you want to be
mindful of when you're working
with images like this Is how much
of the image is showing and so
that's where that object
position property comes in.
These still look pretty good.
Then we go to our tablet dimension So you
can see here for example, this landscape
image, it may be worthwhile to tweak that
a little bit more maybe with a class.
Because you know the interesting part is
the is the mountains interacting with
the moon here.
And that is not really coming across
here at this particular dimension.
So that might be something you wanted
to develop a little bit further.
And then we'll go to mobile.
And you'll see here so
that max width of 400 pixels,
which obviously could be a smaller number.
Now you see we get a sense
of these pictures.
So like this one here called vivid,
you'd see a lot of sky without pushing
the picture up a little bit further.
Or you'd see just the neck
of the guitar without seeing
the main body of the guitar.
So that's how that one's up turning out.
>> Jen, could you differentiate
between the min width and
max width in the case of media queries?
>> Yes, so
when you are writing mobile first,
what you want to do is use all min width
media queries the whole way through.
So you start with your declarations
outside of the media queries,
that's your mobile styles.
And then you're going to change whatever
needs changing through the media
queries and you use min width,
because that pulls in the Styles outside
the media query, holes those styles.
They're still valid when you
get into the next media query.
And they are still valid all the way
through the document until you reset
a value somewhere along the way.
So that is min width.
Max width are what you would use
if you wanted to go desktop first.
In other words, all the styles
outside of it are desktop styles and
then we're going to cut off
whatever those styles are at
various break points by using
max width media queries.
Generally speaking, today, people
write mobile first, for the most part,
but sometimes, desktop first may make
sense, you may be starting from.
Maybe there's still a few websites
around that are not responsive.
And so you might be rewriting
styles that already exist and
you're tacking on the mobile part of it.
That would be a situation where
you might go desktop first.
Or maybe you just have
a complicated desktop website and
it made more sense to go that way.
Maybe that's where most of your
traffic is, it's on your desktop site,
the mobile site is less important.
And so it makes sense to use
desktop first for that reason,
>> That was object position or object fit.
>> Object fit will determine how
the image is going to display within
the space like cover or contain or
there's a scale down one.
You can kind of play around with those
properties to see their impact but
the object position moves things actually
up and down, and side to side and space.
Now you see we get a sense
of these pictures.